README.md, before:

# 📝 mynotes.nvim

A minimal Neovim plugin to open your personal notes in a floating
window.

## Requirements

-   Neovim \>= 0.11.0

## Features

-   Opens a persistent Markdown file (`mynotes.md`)
-   Floating window UI
-   Editable like a normal buffer
-   Shows the real file path centered at the top
-   Cross-platform (Linux, macOS, Windows)
-   No dependencies

## Installation (Lazy.nvim / LazyVim)

``` lua
{
  "Mathiew82/mynotes.nvim",
  config = function()
    require("mynotes").setup({})
  end,
}
```

Then run:

    :Lazy sync

## Usage

Open notes:

-   `<leader>\`
-   `:MyNotes`

Close window:

-   `q`
-   `<Esc>`

## Configuration

Default config:

``` lua
require("mynotes").setup({
  filepath = vim.fn.stdpath("data") .. "/mynotes.md",
  width_ratio = 0.78,
  height_ratio = 0.78,
  border = "rounded",
  keymap_open = "<leader>\\",
})
```

You can customize the plugin by passing options to `setup()`:

```lua
require("mynotes").setup({
  -- Path to your notes file
  -- Default: stdpath("data") .. "/mynotes.md"
  filepath = vim.fn.stdpath("data") .. "/mynotes.md",

  -- Reuse the buffer if already opened
  -- true  = reuse existing buffer
  -- false = always create a new one
  reuse_existing_buffer = true,

  -- Floating window width (percentage of screen)
  -- Example: 0.5 = 50% width
  width_ratio = 0.78,

  -- Floating window height (percentage of screen)
  height_ratio = 0.78,

  -- Window border style
  -- Options:
  -- "single", "double", "rounded", "solid", "shadow", nil
  border = "rounded",

  -- Keymap to open the notes
  keymap_open = "<leader>\\",
})
```

## Files

-   User notes file:

        stdpath("data")/mynotes.md

-   Plugin help:

        doc/mynotes.txt

## License

MIT

Commit message:

Add a warning advising that it is important to backup the notes file

README.md, after:

# 📝 mynotes.nvim

A minimal Neovim plugin to open your personal notes in a floating
window.

## Requirements

-   Neovim \>= 0.11.0

## Features

-   Opens a persistent Markdown file (`mynotes.md`)
-   Floating window UI
-   Editable like a normal buffer
-   Shows the real file path centered at the top
-   Cross-platform (Linux, macOS, Windows)
-   No dependencies

## Installation (Lazy.nvim / LazyVim)

``` lua
{
  "Mathiew82/mynotes.nvim",
  config = function()
    require("mynotes").setup({})
  end,
}
```

Then run:

    :Lazy sync

## Usage

Open notes:

-   `<leader>\`
-   `:MyNotes`

Close window:

-   `q`
-   `<Esc>`

## Configuration

Default config:

``` lua
require("mynotes").setup({
  filepath = vim.fn.stdpath("data") .. "/mynotes.md",
  width_ratio = 0.78,
  height_ratio = 0.78,
  border = "rounded",
  keymap_open = "<leader>\\",
})
```

You can customize the plugin by passing options to `setup()`:

```lua
require("mynotes").setup({
  -- Path to your notes file
  -- Default: stdpath("data") .. "/mynotes.md"
  filepath = vim.fn.stdpath("data") .. "/mynotes.md",

  -- Reuse the buffer if already opened
  -- true  = reuse existing buffer
  -- false = always create a new one
  reuse_existing_buffer = true,

  -- Floating window width (percentage of screen)
  -- Example: 0.5 = 50% width
  width_ratio = 0.78,

  -- Floating window height (percentage of screen)
  height_ratio = 0.78,

  -- Window border style
  -- Options:
  -- "single", "double", "rounded", "solid", "shadow", nil
  border = "rounded",

  -- Keymap to open the notes
  keymap_open = "<leader>\\",
})
```

## Files

-   User notes file:

        stdpath("data")/mynotes.md

-   Plugin help:

        doc/mynotes.txt

> [!WARNING]  
> Your notes file is stored inside Neovim's data directory.  
> If you delete that folder, you will lose your notes.
>
> It is highly recommended to make regular backups.
>
> Example backup command:
>
> ```bash
> mv ~/.local/share/nvim/mynotes.md{,.bak}
> ```
>
> This will create a backup file before any risky operation.

## License

MIT
